Total: 50

programming by manipulation for layout
skitch-based dynamic illustration of fluid systems
illustrating how mechanical assemblies work
Accessible Animation and Customizable Graphics via Simplicial Configuration Modeling
http://idl.cs.washington.edu/papers/reactive-vega/
http://idl.cs.washington.edu/papers/lyra/
http://idl.cs.washington.edu/papers/immens/
http://idl.cs.washington.edu/papers/latency/
scratch
on creating animated presentations
barbara tversky stanford psych
a taxonomy of visualization techniques using the data state reference model
a new model for handling input
CGV an interactive graph visualization system
a unified toolkit for information and scientific visualization
DaisyViz: A model-based user interface toolkit for interactive information visualization systems
Usability requirements for interaction-oriented development tools
genevis
scirun
plumbing of interactive graphics
http://selection.datavisualization.ch
applying mathematical sketching to physics-based tutoring software
E.R. Tufte, Visual Explanations: Images and Quantities, Evidence and
Narrative. Graphics Press, 1997.
 M.B. McGrath and J.R. Brown, “Visual Learning for Science and
Eng.,” IEEE Computer Graphics and Applications, vol. 25, no. 5,
pp. 56-63, Sept./Oct. 2005.
D.M. Butler, J.C. Almond, R.D. Bergeron, K.W. Brodlie, and
A.B. Haber, “Visualization Reference Models,” Proc. Fourth IEEE Conf. Visualization, G.M. Nielson and D. Bergeron, eds., pp. 337-342, Oct. 1993.
I. Russell and M. Taylor, “Practical Scientific Visualization Examples,” ACM SIGGRAPH Computer Graphics, vol. 34, no. 1, pp. 74-79, 2000.)
visualization and optimization jones
ADDIE model instructional design
visualization in scientific computing
keller and keller visual cues: practical data visualization


2. C. Upson, T. Faulhaber Jr., D. Kamins, D. Laidlaw, D. Schlegel, J. Vroom, R. Gurwitz, and A. van Dam. "The Application Visualization System: A computational environment for scientific visualization." IEEE Computer Graphics and Applications, pages 30-42, Jul. 1989.
3. D.S. Dyer, "A dataflow toolkit for visualization," IEEE Computer Graphics and Applications, pages 60-69, July 1990.
4. C. Upson et al., "Future directions of visualization software environments," in SIGGRAPH '92 Panel Proceedings, 1991.
5. B. Lucas et al. "An architecture for a scientific visualization system," in Proceedings of Visualization '92, pages 107-114, Oct. 1992.
6. C. Williams, J. Raruse, and C. Hansen. "The state of the art of visual languages for visualization," in Proceedings of Visualization '92, pages 202-209.

BOOKS:
visualization and optimization (scientific visualization)
designing effective instruction (design of educational content)

survey papers:
an overview of 3d software visualization
Major Information Visualization Authors, Papers and Topics in the ACM Library
visualization and optimization (article)
past present and future of software interface tools


other:
unfolding: "no survey of modern interactive visualization toolkits"
